Good day, brothers and sisters!
We will begin this convention session
by enjoying another music-video presentation.
This video highlights the power
that faith can have in our lives.
Please enjoy the video.
Our opening song expresses
our joy in practicing true worship.
Let’s sing song number 24,
entitled “Come to Jehovah’s Mountain.”
That’s song number 24.
Genuine faith moves us to action.
This can be seen in the lives
of our brothers and sisters earth wide.
Please enjoy the following video
that features experiences
from six different regions.
Let’s see how our brothers are showing faith.
“Through faith they defeated kingdoms,
“brought about righteousness,
“obtained promises,
“stopped the mouths of lions,
“quenched the force of fire,
“escaped the edge of the sword,
“from a weak state were made powerful,
“became mighty in war,
routed invading armies.”
Faith in Jehovah has allowed ordinary people
to do extraordinary things.
This kind of faith is still active today
and still has the power to help us
through any difficulty.
So let’s travel across the globe
and see how deep reliance on Jehovah
has helped many overcome their unique trials.
As we visit each land,
we’ll enjoy a story of faith
shared both from the perspective
of close friends
as well as the individuals involved.
Now to our first destination.
South Africa is full of contrasts
and diversity.
Big, modern cities mix
with poorer remote areas.
For many volunteers
in Kingdom Hall construction,
this presents wonderful opportunities
but also unique challenges that require faith
in Jehovah.
An example of that
is our young friend Namhla.
My wife and I really appreciated
the faith she showed
to make herself available
and to keep her joy in her assignment.
I’m the only Jehovah’s Witness in my family.
What my mother desired the most for me
was to grow up,
go to college
and, in time, get a high-paying job.
My congregation was busy
building a Kingdom Hall,
so I would sometimes also go to help.
I wanted to see and feel the joy
that those brothers were having
building Kingdom Halls.
My mom didn’t like it when she heard
that I was going to help
with Kingdom Hall construction.
She felt that I was wasting my time.
When I arrived on-site,
everything I did was for the first time.
I didn’t have skills,
and I had never done this work before.
It is not easy.
Sometimes I get tired
—mentally exhausted
and even physically exhausted.
Sometimes it’s difficult
to even read the Bible.
I just want to wash up and go to sleep.
It was important for Namhla
to find her spiritual balance
because her spirituality
was more important
than working hard on-site.
I realized that I needed
to be really determined
because my spirituality
was not the same as before.
I saw that I needed to make a change.
I made it a priority to read the Bible first
and to think about the things I read.
I also made sure that I was regular
in going out in the ministry.
Prayer helped a lot
because prayer is the best way
for me to tell Jehovah
things that concern me.
I have seen for myself
how Jehovah God has sustained me.
We’ve seen that she is much more balanced.
My mom would phone and ask,
“Namhla, how is the project going?”
And then she would say,
“If this makes you happy,
then I am also happy.”
At first, I had my fears,
but faith made me confident
that Jehovah God would always be there
to support me in everything I do.
C anada is a diverse country
—both the landscape
and, because of immigration,
the people and their languages.
In order to share Bible truth
with these ones,
many brothers are learning a new language,
like my friend Shaquille.
When Shaquille got invited to Bethel,
I had the privilege of serving
at the Canada branch at the time.
So it was such a pleasure
to see this young man
who had all these wonderful goals
and to see one by one
Jehovah opening those doors to him.
He had made a promise to Jehovah
as a young person.
I want to help those
that don’t have anyone to help them.
Jehovah saw good in me,
and he invested in me,
and he was very patient with me,
and I saw it through every brother and sister
who sincerely reached out to help me.
Meditating on Jehovah’s qualities
—you want to imitate him.
You want to show the kindness that he
has shown toward you and toward others.
So in a foreign language, I feel
like there is a giant opportunity to do that.
I started to learn Punjabi,
and I never regretted it.
It changed my service to Jehovah.
There was a time period in my Bethel service
when I was really, really sick,
and it was a kind of sickness
where I didn’t know why it was happening.
No doctor could tell me why it was happening.
It affected my physical appearance,
and it seemed liked torment
throughout each and every day.
A lot of times, I would have rather
not been seen.
So serving in a foreign language now
when you’re one of the people
who is spiritually supposed
to be strengthening others,
but you’re going
through a hard time yourself,
was a massive challenge for me.
I think all of his friends
just really appreciated
the faith that he had to overcome that.
And even though it was
a very low point in his life,
he really hung on to Jehovah.
If I’m in this assignment and I’ve seen
that Jehovah has blessed me,
what would lead me to conclude
that he’s going to stop?
He couldn’t sleep; he just couldn’t continue
at Bethel either.
I had left Bethel.
But still, my health was decreasing,
and it was getting really bad.
And it was getting to the point that doctors
expressed concern
about maybe an organ failing
and things like that.
But they did not give me any way out.
I had no way out.
He kept making progress
even though there were certainly
some really difficult times for him.
I had to take a realistic approach
toward my new situation,
and I had to figure out, “OK, how
am I going to put Kingdom interests first
“while materially taking care of myself
“and hopefully figure out why I’m sick
and if I can do anything about it?”
In the end, he decided
to stick with the foreign language.
And something I really learned
from Shaquille is
that he really took the Scriptures
and made it personal.
He would read it as if he was the person
in the Scriptures,
and he would meditate on it,
and now he could see how,
even though he didn’t know the answers,
Jehovah would help him
through his difficult times.
So, what am I going to do?
I’m going to live up
to what I promised to Jehovah.
Today, he serves with his wife
in the Punjabi field.
He’s a loving shepherd, and he
even instructs Punjabi-language classes.
In Indonesia, people work very hard.
They seek stability through a secure job.
This can have a powerful influence
on the brothers and sisters
because they may feel
that they can’t expand their ministry.
When I met the Jatmikos,
they were working toward pioneer service.
When they started, I asked them,
“Would you like to be used
more fully by Jehovah?”
I was confused.
We felt that the pioneer service itself was
already a big accomplishment.
I encouraged them to think
about the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
I had never imagined applying for SKE.
It was tempting.
I wanted to be used by Jehovah,
but
what would happen to us after graduation?
Where would we be assigned?
What would be our assignment?
We needed more faith,
so we prayed a lot about that.
Jehovah answered my prayers
through the brothers and sisters
in the congregation.
Mardha had a prestigious job.
She was even being offered many scholarships
so that she could pursue higher education
and further advance her career.
The brothers and sisters
never criticized Mardha’s work choice.
Rather, they showed us the joys
of serving Jehovah more fully.
When I was still deciding what to do,
some of them asked me
about my spiritual goals
and what I could see myself doing.
Thinking about such questions
convinced me to choose SKE.
They were invited to attend the school.
They had to leave their jobs, their house,
and the comforts of the place and city
where they lived.
They were assigned to a small congregation.
They had to pray even more
to ask Jehovah God
for guidance and direction.
Now they’re serving in the traveling work,
caring for a circuit.
We are fully convinced
that it was not due
to any greatness on our part
but because of Jehovah’s help.
If we want to be used by Jehovah
and if we want to serve him,
Jehovah can use us in many different ways.
Fiji is a beautiful place.
However, one thing that is common here
is poverty.
That is the situation Sister Bakata faces.
My husband was a hard worker.
While we were out in the water,
he cried out from the mangroves.
When I went and found him,
I knew that it was a stroke.
I had to take on both roles
as husband and wife.
I would farm; I would fish.
It was a difficult life.
One day, a sister was sick.
Even though Sister Bakata faced challenges,
if there was any washing or cleaning
needed for the sick sister,
she was happy to go and help with that too.
I think back to when a cyclone hit Kadavu
—Cyclone Keni.
I was scared by the damage
it did to our house.
Our outdoor kitchen was blown off.
When I heard about the things
that happened to the brothers,
I felt so sorry for them.
Their roofs were blown away,
and the walls had fallen down.
Just think about what Sister Bakata did.
She had 20 Fijian dollars.
That is the only money she had,
but she decided to give all of that
to the brothers.
I didn’t have any other way to help them.
Jehovah is “the God of love.”
Like it says at 1 John 4:8,
his main quality is love.
Because of that love,
I gave the money from the bottom of my heart.
I learned that even though we are poor,
we can still be generous
to assist our brothers.
The more I gave,
the more Jehovah gave back to me.
Till today,
we’ve always had what we’ve needed.
In Peru, like many places around the world,
our brothers and sisters need to work hard.
Benjamín and Doris have to make
good use of their resources
in order to provide for their family.
We want to give our children
a spiritual heritage.
We want them to be able to serve Jehovah
by watching how we are doing it.
We watch a lot of videos that help us.
We often remember the video
about Abilio and Ulla.
They also had three children.
They moved to another place and grew up
in a very nice, spiritual atmosphere.
They are serving Jehovah now as adults.
So we asked ourselves,
‘Could we move to another place
where the need is greater?’
It takes faith to go to an unfamiliar place.
One video on jw.org that helped us a lot
was about the family from England
who moved to Ecuador.
First, they went for one month.
So we said
that we should also go visit first.
Going to another country
would have been exciting
and would have been super,
but our economic situation
wouldn’t allow us to go that far.
We took a trip together with our children
to visit a territory that had a need
called Calango.
It takes about an hour and a half
to get there.
They liked the geography of the area
and all the vegetation.
There were many things
that captured their attention.
The things that I like in Calango
are playing and preaching.
We were unable to move to the city of Calango
because of the economic situation
that the people face there.
It’s hard to get a job there.
So for that reason,
we decided to travel to Calango
on Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays
and work the other days here in Pachacamác.
We have felt that Jehovah is helping us
because he has made it possible to work here.
And the money that we earn in those days
allows us to be with our brothers there.
We needed to know how to keep things simple.
We learned that from the videos on jw.org.
The hard work that they do proves to me
that they really love Jehovah.
They fully trust that Jehovah is our Father.
He is the Dad.
And we know that Dad
always comes through for his children.
And that faith is something
that greatly motivates them.
The videos on jw.org had given us
the push that we needed.
We needed those videos
in order to take action
and move to another area.
Across Russia,
our brothers have successfully faced decades
of persecution and ban.
The Budenchuks, like so many families there,
still face these challenges today.
On June 12, 2018,
at 5:30 a.m.,
armed men burst into our home.
They threw my husband to the floor
and handcuffed him.
Eventually, they sent my husband
to a pretrial detention facility
for 11 months.
It was frightening
just imagining certain things.
She didn’t find it easy and shed many tears.
I was really worried
about how I would care for the children
and how I would fulfill
their needs spiritually,
emotionally, and physically.
Prayer calmed me down
because I wanted, of course,
to react very emotionally
to everything
—to the injustice that we were facing.
When the court hearings were going on,
brothers and sisters would come.
It was such a support
—so strengthening!
On September 19, 2019,
the court convicted my husband
and sent him to a prison colony
for three and a half years.
In January 2020,
a new disaster hit us.
At 1:00 a.m., our house burned to the ground.
We stood there near the house,
and my son, Yegor, suggested saying a prayer.
I don’t remember the prayer,
but afterward I felt calmer.
Then cars started coming to the house.
It was our brothers and sisters.
I was frozen, shaking from the cold,
and they dressed me like a small child.
They brought us hot tea, food
—everything of the highest quality.
Just one month after the fire,
when they took my husband
to the prison colony,
officers there beat him up.
When I found out about it,
it was so hard for me
because I didn’t know how to help my husband
or how he was feeling.
Tanya copes with hardships very courageously.
I prayed to Jehovah, sometimes all night.
It felt as though Jehovah gave me
painkillers to dull my pain.
My husband, Aleksey,
tries to take care of us.
In the pretrial detention facility,
for example,
each day he wrote
letters of encouragement to us,
which we read together as a family.
My dear family: Remember the qualities
that we need right now
—endurance, courage, calmness
and, most important, faith.
I like the thought that after winter,
summer always comes;
after the night, the day arrives;
and after the darkest days,
there will definitely come a sunny one.
Throughout all these trials,
having a good spiritual schedule
and reading the Bible
has given me strength.
Also, we prepare for meetings
and participate in the ministry.
I was really afraid to do it,
but this situation has helped me
to see Jehovah’s support.
I have realized
that even in my circumstances,
I can still help others.
We know that Jehovah
has already given us his support,
and we believe
that he will continue to support us.
Their example of courage
and steadfast faith
in the face of difficulties and trials
proves that we can also remain faithful.
We too can make Jehovah happy
and continue to serve him
without becoming discouraged.
We have learned to trust more in Jehovah
and not to panic
when a difficult situation arises.
These difficulties have made me stronger,
helped me to overcome
many of the fears I used to have,
and strengthened my faith
and my desire to help others.
As we have seen,
our brothers the world over
continue to show strong faith.
How did they do it?
A regular study of God’s Word,
time spent in deep meditation,
and seeking His direction in prayer.
What did this allow them to accomplish?
Through faith, our brothers handled
theocratic building assignments;
learned foreign languages;
attended theocratic schools;
though poor, remained generous;
served where the need was greater;
and preached despite persecution.
And Jehovah knows we can do the same.
Yes, if we let faith move us to action,
those actions will strengthen our faith.
Those experiences
warm our hearts and move us
to imitate the faith
of our brothers and sisters.
What are some ways in which we can do so?
The following symposium will discuss
five opportunities to show our faith,
and it will help us to overcome
obstacles that could hold us back.
Each speaker
will introduce the one to follow.
Brother David Schafer,
a helper to the Teaching Committee,
will present the first talk entitled
“Enter the Door to Activity in Faith
—Learn a New Language.”
Can you see faith?
Turn with me, please, to Mark chapter 2,
and notice what the Bible says about this.
In this account, Jesus is teaching
in a crowded house in Capernaum,
and in Mark 2:2-5 he tells us:
“And so many gathered
“that there was no more room,
not even around the door,
“and he began to speak the word to them.
“And they brought him a paralytic
carried by four men.
“But they could not bring him right to Jesus
because of the crowd,
“so they removed the roof above Jesus,
“and after digging an opening,
“they lowered the stretcher
on which the paralytic was lying.
“When Jesus saw their faith,
he said to the paralytic:
‘Child, your sins are forgiven.’”
So, yes, faith can be seen.
It’s seen in the way we act.
Like other invisible things,
faith is measured by its effects.
In fact, James 2:26 says
that “faith without works is dead.”
The question is, Can others see my faith?
What effect is my faith
producing in me?
Turn with me, please,
to 1 Corinthians chapter 16.
One effect that faith has on people
is that it moves them to expand
their activity in Kingdom service.
Notice how the apostle Paul expressed this
at 1 Corinthians 16:9:
“Because a large door that leads to activity
has been opened to me,
but there are many opposers.”
Paul took advantage
of such opportunities to show his faith.
Has Jehovah opened
the door to activity for you?
In this symposium,
we’re going to discuss five ways
in which a temporary opportunity
leading to great activity
and making disciples might present itself.
This could be in the form
of learning a new language,
moving to where the need is greater,
applying to attend
the School for Kingdom Evangelizers,
assisting with a theocratic building project,
or donating generously
to support the Kingdom work.
Now, why is faith needed
to seize such opportunities,
and what blessings do we receive when we do?
First, why is faith needed
to learn a new language
in order to make disciples?
Turn with me, please, to Zechariah chapter 8
—Zechariah chapter 8.
It takes faith
to discern that current events
are fulfilling Bible prophecy.
It takes faith to understand
how we can act in harmony with God’s purpose
as revealed in that prophecy.
Zechariah 8:22 says:
“And many peoples and mighty nations
“will come to seek
Jehovah of armies in Jerusalem
and to beg for the favor of Jehovah.”
And verse 23 says:
“This is what Jehovah of armies says,
“‘In those days ten men
“‘out of all the languages of the nations
“‘will take hold, yes, they will take
firm hold of the robe of a Jew,
“‘saying: “We want to go with you,
for we have heard
that God is with you people.”’”
“Ten men”
—people who recognize that the only way
to gain Jehovah’s approval
is to associate
with those who already have it.
The “Jew” is also referred to here
as “you people.”
Which people?
Obviously, not the people
who refuse to pronounce God’s name
or those who remove it altogether
from their Bible translations.
No.
This refers to those who worship
Jehovah by name
—spirit-anointed Christians,
“the Israel of God”
referred to at Galatians 6:16.
And because ten
can represent earthly completeness,
the “ten men” represent all men and women
who have the hope of living forever on earth.
Now, notice that they come
not simply from all the nations
but from “all the languages of the nations”
in order to learn Jehovah’s requirements.
Now, how will they hear
the voice of the “Jew” in their language?
That might just be
your door to activity.
Now, some might hesitate
to learn a new language.
Perhaps they hold back because of the time
and energy that are required.
Others feel that they lack the ability.
And while it’s true
that before making any decision
we need to calculate the expense,
the question here is one of faith.
Can the God who gave ability to Bezalel,
who made the sun stand still for Joshua,
and who gave power to Samson
also give you the ability,
time, and energy to help those
who are begging for the favor of Jehovah?
Remember, Matthew 17:20:
“If you have faith
the size of a mustard grain, . . .
nothing will be impossible for you.”
And according to Philippians 2:13,
holy spirit can give us even “the desire”
to preach to those
who speak another language.
Is that spirit drawing you now?
Remember, too, that through his organization,
Jehovah provides much help
for those who are learning a new language.
JW.ORG contains reading material,
audio recordings, and videos
in more languages than any other website.
Then, we have the JW Language  app
and language classes
arranged by the branch office.
When faith motivates us
to make sacrifices to serve Jehovah,
he will help us to succeed
and he will reward us
with many blessings.
For instance, a couple in their 60’s
kept finding Chinese people
who accepted their invitations
to attend congregation meetings.
So they decided to learn Chinese,
and within ten years, they studied
with 112 Chinese people.
OK, but with so many languages,
how do I know
which language to start learning?
Zechariah 8:22,
who is ‘begging for the favor of Jehovah’?
You can learn about the needs in your area
by consulting with the elders
and the circuit overseer.
In the following video, note how one couple
responds to a need in the field.
Oh, honestly, you shouldn’t have.
You’re going to need it.
Gabriel’s leaving to serve where
the need is greater made us feel like we
had missed the chance to expand our ministry.
Why don’t we start now?
We’re not getting any younger.
Yeah.
We could ask the circuit overseer for advice
on his next visit,
but I’m worried he’s going to say
we should . . .
. . . join the new language group.
It’s a big need in our circuit.
We’ve never felt like the right people
to serve in a foreign language.
Brother Lindstrom
shared Zechariah 8:23 with us,
which helped us see how we could have a hand
in helping “men out of all
the languages of the nations”
learn about Jehovah.
Learning was a struggle at first.
But with Jehovah’s help, we made progress
—slowly.
Yes!
You did it!
Even though the language was a challenge,
loving our new family was not.
Oh, um, uhh.
I don’t—I don’t understand.
Say again what you say.
Uhm, uh.
Come.
OK.
Oh, thank—thank you!
It’s true, we aren’t getting any younger.
And that’s why we’re so glad
we took the chance to expand our ministry.
Did you notice how Elliott and Corrine
showed faith and how they were blessed?
They talked to their circuit overseer,
who revealed a big need
in a foreign-language group in their circuit.
He then showed them Zechariah 8:23.
They read that scripture again later,
and they prayed about it together,
and then came
the measurable effect of their faith.
They put forth great efforts to learn.
Then, with humility and courage,
they used their new language skills
at the meetings and in the ministry,
and they were able to help those
who were ‘begging for the favor of Jehovah.’
That’s how it works.
Simple?
No, but if we invest the time and effort
to learn a new language
in order to do more for Jehovah,
we can be confident
that Jehovah will bless us
with a rewarding ministry.
As a couple from Britain said:
“The ministry in the foreign-language field
“is one of the most exciting
we have experienced
during our 40 years of Kingdom service.”
Why did they do it?
Because people who are seeking Jehovah
need to hear his requirements for life
in words they can understand.
During a meeting held in Vietnamese,
a man stood up
and said with tears in his eyes:
“Thank you, thank you for the efforts
“you are making
to learn my difficult language.
“I am so grateful to learn
many wonderful things
from the Bible in my old age.”
After attending a circuit assembly
in his native Albanian,
a man in his 70’s
living in New York City, said:
“This is the best day of my life!”
He made arrangements
that very day to start studying the Bible
with a pioneer who had learned his language,
and within just a few years,
he began serving as a ministerial servant.
These are blessings for exercising faith.
Faith is measured by the way we act.
Could you enter
this door to activity in faith?
Brother Samuel Herd,
a member of the Governing Body,
will now consider the next talk
of this symposium,
“Enter the Door to Activity in Faith
—Move to Where the Need Is Greater.”
Moving to serve where the need
for Kingdom preachers is greater
can be intimidating.
Before moving, we cannot know all the details
of what our life will be like.
However, the Bible can give us
the wisdom to successfully meet
any challenges we face after moving.
We must put faith in it.
Faith can motivate us
to seize opportunities to serve Jehovah.
Please locate Hebrews 11:8-10.
Abram’s willingness to leave
what was comfortable and familiar
and move to a new land
when he was in his 70’s
was a powerful demonstration of faith.
Let’s read Hebrews 11:8-10:
“By faith Abraham, when he was called,
“obeyed by going out to a place
“he was to receive as an inheritance;
“he went out, although
not knowing where he was going.
“By faith he lived as a foreigner in the land
“of the promise as in a foreign land,
“living in tents with Isaac and Jacob,
“the heirs with him of the very same promise.
“For he was awaiting
the city having real foundations,
whose designer and builder is God.”
He didn’t even know where
he was being assigned, but he went.
Based on his faith, he knew
that the real life was not back home.
It was not in his new assignment.
He looked for the fulfillment
of future promises.
Did Abraham and Sarah face
any difficulties along the way?
Yes, they did.
Unexpected circumstances
were thrust upon them.
But did Jehovah see them through?
Find Genesis 20:3-7.
To protect his life, Abraham
called Sarah his sister.
So the king of Gerar
felt he could take her as his wife.
This was a difficult time
for Abraham and Sarah.
Did Jehovah work things out?
Let’s read Genesis 20:3-7:
“Afterward, God came by night
“to Abimelech in a dream and said to him:
“‘Here you are as good as dead
because of the woman
“‘whom you have taken, since she is married
“and belongs to another man.’
“However, Abimelech had not gone near her.
“So he said: ‘Jehovah,
“‘will you kill a nation
that is really innocent?
“‘Did he not say to me, “She is my sister,”
“‘and did she too not say,
“He is my brother”?
“‘I did this with an honest heart
“and innocent hands.’
“Then the true God said to him in the dream:
“‘I know that you did this
with an honest heart,
“‘so I held you back from sinning against me.
“‘That is why I did not allow
you to touch her.
“‘Now return the man’s wife,
“‘for he is a prophet,
and he will make supplication
“‘for you and you will keep living.
“‘But if you are not returning her,
“‘know that you will surely die,
you and all who are yours.’”
Jehovah will be with us too
if we act in faith to expand our ministry.
We will get through the surprises
and enjoy the rewards
of reaching out in this way.
Although we cannot know all the challenges
that we may encounter,
we can take practical steps
to choose a location
and prepare to make adjustments.
Do you remember Jesus’ words at Luke 14:28?
He indicated that a person
who wanted “to build a tower”
would first “calculate the expense
to see if he has enough to complete it.”
That was practical.
And we can do the same
when contemplating relocating
to where the need is greater.
We can get a taste of the blessings
we will experience
by participating in preaching campaigns
organized by the branch office or working
seldom-worked territory.
Might you have the circumstances
to move where the need is greater?
If you’re interested
in serving in another land,
do careful research and speak
to your congregation elders.
They can forward your letter
to the branch office
of the country that interests you.
If you’re unable to move to another land,
what is another option?
You can, through your elders,
write to the local branch office
for information
about congregations that have a need.
Your circuit overseer can provide information
about nearby congregations
that may need help.
In the following video, note how one brother
overcame his fear of serving
where the need is greater.
If you had told me two years ago that I’d
be moving to where the need was greater,
I would have laughed.
It all started when they announced
a special preaching campaign.
My friend Samuel
encouraged me to apply with him.
So, what do you think?
Uh, yeah,
no, but you enjoy that.
I know you’re going to love it.
That’s why I got you a form as well,
all right?
We can do this!
OK.
I knew I could do more,
but I was comfortable.
I like doing things on my own terms.
But really, I was afraid of the unknown.
I needed to examine my heart.
When I read about Abraham’s faith
at Hebrews 11:8,
it’s like the words jumped off the page.
“He went out although
not knowing where he was going.”
Who better to be in control
of my life than Jehovah?
A door was opened to me.
I just needed to go through it.
And what I experienced changed my life.
Let’s do it, man.
The results of the campaign were incredible!
And the experience pushed me
out of my comfort zone.
All right, Gabriel is going to try some food.
Try, try, try!
Go on, go on, give it a try, Gabriel!
It’s good, yeah—really good!
I saw the ministry in a new way,
and I wanted to do more.
So I calculated the cost
and worked
with my local elders
to write to the branch office.
When I heard back with some suggestions,
I prayed about it
and did research before choosing.
There were many unknowns,
but I couldn’t wait!
It was hard to say goodbye to my friends,
but I was ready for whatever
Jehovah had in store for me.
Did you notice how faith was shown
and what blessings resulted?
The young brother admitted he was
in a comfort zone.
Another brother invited him to join
in a special preaching campaign.
Our brother was hesitant to reach out.
However, he read about Abraham.
What did he conclude?
He said, “Who better to be
in control of my life than Jehovah?”
He thoroughly enjoyed the experience
of the special campaign.
It fired him up!
And the next thing we know,
he is relocating to another congregation
that needed help.
Although you will need to make sacrifices
and you may face unexpected challenges,
you will gain many blessings,
drawing ever closer to Jehovah.
There is no need to worry
about the good things
you may be denied temporarily.
Jehovah knows what you presently need
and will supply it to you
on time.
Luke 12:31 advises:
“Keep seeking [God’s] Kingdom,
and [all the] things [you need]
will be added to you.”
As a single person or as a family,
consider if you can move
to where the need is greater.
Brother Mark Noumair,
a helper to the Teaching Committee,
will now consider
the next talk of this symposium,
“Enter the Door to Activity in Faith
—Apply for the School
for Kingdom Evangelizers.”
Proverbs 10:22 states:
“It is the blessing of Jehovah
that makes one rich,
and He adds no pain with it.”
Jehovah blesses those he loves
with gifts of divine approval,
guidance, and spiritual prosperity.
And when we enter
‘a door of Kingdom activity’ in faith,
we are putting ourselves in line
for a rich blessing from Jehovah.
One of those doors
is the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
Now, what just came to your mind
when you heard that?
Did you think: ‘Well, that’s a great school
if you have special circumstances
to apply for it,’
or ‘I’m too old for that,’
or ‘I’m too young for that,’
or ‘I’m already serving
where the need is great; I’m needed here,’
or ‘They could send me anywhere
after the school,
and I’m not really comfortable with that’?
Those are honest feelings—and understandable.
But we want to be careful that feelings
don’t turn into stumbling stones
that would prevent us
from receiving a blessing from Jehovah.
Let’s use Timothy as an example
of one who entered
‘a door of Kingdom activity’
and received Jehovah’s rich blessing.
Timothy received a personal invitation
from the apostle Paul to expand his ministry.
At first glance,
the two men probably looked nothing alike.
So imagine that scene.
Paul was older, a man of experience.
Timothy was young,
probably in his late teens or early 20’s.
Paul was bold in his speech,
tireless in his ministry,
and resilient to opposition.
Yet, on the other hand,
the Scriptures indicate
that young Timothy was perhaps shy,
hesitant, and lacked self-confidence.
What stumbling stones
could have existed
in Timothy’s mind
as he pondered Paul’s invitation?
Well, let’s open our Bibles
to 2 Timothy chapter 3
and read verses 10 and 11,
and we’ll find out—
2 Timothy chapter 3,
and we’re going to read verses 10 and 11.
Now, notice that Paul wrote this to Timothy
many years later,
but let’s see what we can learn
—verse 10:
“But you have closely followed my teaching,
“my course of life,
“my purpose, my faith,
my patience, my love, my endurance,
“the persecutions and sufferings
“such as I experienced
in [now notice] Antioch,
in Iconium, [and] in Lystra.”
Now, where was Timothy from?
Lystra.
The young man likely witnessed
how Paul suffered ruthless beatings in Lystra
at the hands of opposers.
Can you feel Timothy’s possible hesitation
as he now looks at Paul
extending his hand out to him,
perhaps even eyeing the scars of Paul,
and Paul says, “Come with me”?
Timothy had to wonder:
‘If I go with you, it’s not going to be easy.
Will I suffer as you suffered?’
Another possible stumbling stone for Timothy
was the fact that he was already serving
in a capable way
in the newly formed congregation in Lystra
and “was well-reported-on by the brothers.”
And now Paul was asking him to leave it all,
including his family and friends.
Timothy could have reasoned:
‘They need me; my mother needs me;
my grandmother needs me here.
Maybe I can join Paul in a few years
when I gain more experience.’
And perhaps yet another stumbling stone
for Timothy could have been the fact
that he did not know
where his assignment would take him.
Lystra was a small,
rustic town secluded in a valley.
He knew the people, the landscape,
the food, the language, the culture.
Timothy knew that accompanying Paul
meant venturing into the unknown.
He had to wonder:
‘Am I really ready for this?
‘I have a weak stomach,
and it’s already feeling weaker
just thinking about going with Paul.’
Can you see yourself in Timothy?
He no doubt had some real concerns
before accepting Paul’s offer.
But what did Timothy’s faith
allow him to see?
Well, let’s read again
Paul’s words at 2 Timothy,
this time verse 11, but verse 11b
—2 Timothy 3:11b:
“I endured these persecutions.”
And now note this:
“And the Lord rescued me from them all.”
Timothy witnessed firsthand
how Jehovah rescued and strengthened Paul.
So, yes, in faith Timothy
did enter the door of activity,
and he had worked together
with Paul for many years.
But think of the blessings he received
because of his decision to join Paul.
He observed how Paul navigated
through each trial
and how Paul kept his inner peace.
Timothy saw not just the inconveniences
or the sufferings of Paul,
but he had observed Paul’s stabilizing joy.
And he witnessed how Jehovah
helped him each step of the way.
With Jehovah’s help,
Timothy stretched
beyond his somewhat shy, hesitant nature
to reach his full potential
as a zealous overseer
in support of the truth.
Now, in the following video,
note what reasoning helped Gabriel
decide to apply
for the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
At our convention, they had the meeting
My friend Anton asked if I was going to go.
Hi, Gabriel.
Oh, hi, Anton.
Are you coming?
Uh, to what?
The SKE meeting.
Oh, uh, no.
I wasn’t planning on it,
but all right, yeah, sure.
I’ll go.
OK, then, and afterward, I can . . .
I went, but I felt conflicted.
I thought,
‘I already have an assignment,
one that I love.’
But I didn’t fully understand
the incredible privilege of attending SKE.
I asked the circuit overseer
a few more questions.
And it felt like, this is it!
It seemed right,
and all I had to do was apply online.
But that was months ago.
So, what’s holding you back?
I feel like Jehovah led me here,
and I’ve never been happier.
But now another door has opened,
and the fear is back.
It doesn’t matter how far you’ve come.
Fear of the unknown can be overwhelming.
Sometimes you need a reminder that Jehovah
is leading you in the right direction.
Here’s one to keep in mind
—Philippians 4:13.
Read it, and just think
about how far Jehovah has taken you.
“For all things I have the strength
through the one who gives me power.”
Jehovah is in control.
What was I so afraid of?
I’m bringing too much.
Well, SKE is for two months.
Oh, you’re just alike you two,
bringing every last thing with you.
Can I—can I leave this with you?
It’s been on a few adventures,
but it’s still great for traveling.
Really?
Yeah, please.
Who knows, you might need it sometime soon.
Did you notice how faith was shown?
Gabriel was in fear of the unknown.
But Philippians 4:13 touched his heart,
stirred his feelings,
and helped him to trust in Jehovah
and move forward in faith
and apply for the School
for Kingdom Evangelizers.
If you choose to enter
through the door of SKE,
you will receive specialized training
so that you can be used more fully
by Jehovah and his organization.
Remember, it’s not a leap of faith
with no idea of how things might turn out.
It is an informed decision
with a guaranteed outcome
of blessings from Jehovah.
Will you trust that Jehovah
will help you every step of the way?
If so, like Timothy,
you will experience firsthand
how “the blessing of Jehovah . . .
makes . . . rich.”
Brother Robert Luccioni,
a helper to the Publishing Committee,
will now consider the next talk
of this symposium,
“Enter the Door to Activity in Faith
—Assist With a Theocratic Building Project.”
Would you like to assist
with a theocratic building project?
You may see reports regarding
branch construction and renovation
or the need for new Kingdom Halls
and remote translation offices (RTOs),
and this may cause you to wonder
if you could have a share.
Well, that is a wonderful goal.
Now, as we’ve considered in this symposium,
it takes faith to do more for Jehovah.
Likewise, faith is required
to share in a theocratic building project.
Now, why is that?
Well, generally, there are two concerns:
(1) We may lack experience.
We may feel that we do not have
construction, design,
engineering, or real estate experience,
and thus we may feel inadequate
to assist with a Local/Design
Construction Department (LDC)
or other project.
Or (2) we may also realize
that to begin assisting,
generally, we do so on a temporary basis.
Therefore, we may have concerns
about leaving our job
or our family for a period of time to assist.
Well, if you can relate to those concerns,
then, no doubt the example of Nehemiah
will build your faith.
Turn, please, to Nehemiah 1:2, 3
—Nehemiah 1:2, 3:
“At that time Hanani, one of my brothers,
“arrived with other men from Judah,
“and I asked them about the remaining Jews
who had escaped the captivity,
“and also about Jerusalem.
“They replied: ‘Those remaining
there in the province
“‘who have survived the captivity
are in a terrible situation
“‘and in disgrace.
“‘The walls of Jerusalem are broken down,
and its gates have been burned with fire.’”
Nehemiah here is presented with a need.
What would he do?
Would he say: ‘Oh, I hope
those skilled brothers
help that situation one day.’
Look at chapter 2 and verse 5:
“I then said to the king:
“‘If it pleases the king and if your servant
has found favor with you,
“‘send me to Judah, to the city
where my forefathers are buried,
so that I may rebuild it.’”
Yes, Nehemiah was moved; he wanted to help.
He saw an opportunity
and demonstrated his faith.
He took the initiative.
Now, did it take faith for Nehemiah
to take this step?
Well, no doubt it did.
But why do we say that?
Well, first off, what was
Nehemiah’s work assignment?
Was he the head
of the king’s construction project?
Was he the leading architect
or engineer or a city planner?
No.
No, rather, he was the cupbearer to the king.
You can picture him saying:
‘Well I don’t have the experience
‘to rebuild the walls of Jerusalem.
‘I wouldn’t even know where to start.
Maybe I best leave that to somebody else.’
No, rather, he saw the need;
he had the circumstances to help,
and he acted on that need.
Nehemiah did not let
his possible lack of experience
hold him back.
That took faith.
Now, what about the fact that this was
only a temporary assignment?
Well, Nehemiah, again, was willing to leave
this prestigious position
as the cupbearer to the king.
When you think about it,
he could have wondered
whether his replacement
would take over his position permanently.
Would his nice job be there
when he returned from Jerusalem?
Well, Nehemiah showed faith
that Jehovah had loyal love
and would remember him.
Notice his words at Nehemiah 1:5:
“I said: ‘O Jehovah, the God of the heavens,
“‘the great and awe-inspiring God
“‘who keeps his covenant and shows loyal love
to those who love him
and keep his commandments.’”
Yes, Nehemiah was confident
that Jehovah would show loyal love.
Jehovah would work things out.
What was the result of Nehemiah’s faith?
Well, although at first Nehemiah
was not known as a builder,
Jehovah used him in a mighty way
to accomplish his will.
And Nehemiah contributed to the rebuilding
of the walls of Jerusalem
in significant ways.
What’s the lesson?
Well, the lesson is that we need faith
if we are going to assist
with a theocratic building project.
Now, primarily, we need brothers and sisters
who have a strong relationship
with Jehovah and a willing spirit.
Those are the qualities we need.
Construction or technical skills
can be learned.
Strong faith will give us the confidence
that if we are invited,
Jehovah will make us equal to the task
and help us to develop the skills
that are needed,
and faith will also help us to trust
that Jehovah will care for us
when our assignment is over.
In the following video, note how Sarah
found the courage
to assist in a theocratic building project.
Hi, darling, we’re back.
When I learned that I was invited to work
for a few weeks on the upcoming
construction project, I was thrilled.
But that excitement
quickly turned into anxiety
because of what I had to do.
I prayed to Jehovah for weeks
to give me the strength
to have the conversation with my employer.
All right, Sarah, come in!
So?
I wanted to, first of all, say thank you
for taking the time to meet with me, . . .
I began to explain
about the construction project
and how I had been invited to volunteer.
. . . and I would
really like the time to . . .
So you want time off
during the busiest time of our year?
Well, yes, but . . .
It’s your choice, but under no circumstances
will I hold your position.
Suddenly, this beautiful privilege
felt like a huge risk.
Was I making my life
more complicated by doing this?
I read the account
about the people in Nehemiah’s day.
Their willing spirit demonstrated faith,
and Jerusalem’s walls were built by people
who “put their heart into the work.”
I didn’t want to miss out
on the opportunity
to serve Jehovah in that way.
This is my resignation letter.
I had to have faith that Jehovah
would bless my decision.
I’m not sure what the future holds
when I get back,
but I know Jehovah will take care of me.
For now, I’m going to focus
on putting my heart into the work.
Can you relate to when Sarah
went to meet her employer
or how she struggled
with the decision of what to do?
Well, how did Sarah resolve her concerns?
Well, remember, she examined
the example of Nehemiah and others,
and this gave her courage to act
and, as a result, she enjoyed many blessings.
Well, many of our brothers and sisters
have made the same choice.
For example, one couple
had to give up their apartment
and resign from their secular employment
to help with a project.
Now, they said they did feel some anxiety
as the end of their six-month assignment
neared,
but they trusted that Jehovah
would help them, and help he did.
When they returned,
they called their former employer.
Not only did he offer them their job back
but it was with better terms.
And they said that within one week
of returning back,
they had found a new apartment.
In another example, the LDC Department
invited a brother
to work for a few months on a project.
Now, at the time, he was working full-time
with a major company.
He had good benefits, a good salary,
a company car, housing.
He requested a leave of absence.
They denied his request.
Our brother decided to take
the LDC assignment anyway.
He was fired from his job.
So, what would he do
after he completed his assignment?
Well, he was actually able to find
a part-time job
that has allowed him to stay
in full-time service,
and now he is a pioneer.
He and his wife are pioneers,
and he’s serving as a remote volunteer
for a branch construction project.
Similar stories are repeated over and over.
Jehovah foretold that during these last days
“a great crowd” would worship him acceptably,
and the fulfillment of that prophecy
has created an urgent need
for more Kingdom Halls, Assembly Halls,
branch facilities, and RTOs.
Now, we understand
that the pandemic has limited
theocratic building projects
to some extent at this time.
However, there is still much work to do
now and on into the future.
So if your health and circumstances permit,
make yourself available.
You can do so by filling out the A-19
and DC-50 applications.
Your elders can help you
to access these on jw.org.
So if assisting with a theocratic
building project is your goal,
you can be confident that you too
will become powerful by faith.
Take that leap.
You will enjoy Jehovah’s support
and many, many blessings.
Now, Brother Gajus Glockentin,
a helper to the Publishing Committee,
will consider the final talk
of this symposium,
“Enter the Door to Activity in Faith
—‘Set Something Aside’ for Jehovah’s Work.”
There is no other organization
that compares to Jehovah’s organization.
Everything the organization provides
and helps with is free of charge.
But Jehovah invites all of us to give to him
or contribute our material resources
according to what we personally decide.
Now, why is this “giving” a matter of faith?
Could it be that we hold back because
(1) we might fear that if we are generous,
we might not have enough for our own needs?
To think this way is understandable.
Life is unpredictable, and nobody knows
what the future holds and what
our material needs might be tomorrow.
Or could it be that we hold back because
(2) we feel that our personal contribution
is so small and, therefore, insignificant?
Maybe we have very little materially
because we live in a poor country
or we struggle to cover
our expenses for other reasons.
So we see that our giving
really depends on how
we connect this with Jehovah.
Our view of Jehovah
and our friendship with Jehovah
needs to influence our actions,
and this requires faith.
Therefore, let us briefly look
at these two concerns
that might impact our generosity
and how faith can help us.
Now, the first concern was the uncertainty
of our own future needs.
Please, let us open our Bible
to 1 Corinthians chapter 16.
Here in our theme scripture,
the apostle Paul provides
a principle to follow
when we consider donations.
This is 1 Corinthians 16,
and we’ll read verse 2:
“On the first day of every week,
“each of you should set something aside
according to his own means,
so that collections
will not take place when I arrive.”
So the apostle Paul encouraged Christians
to plan ahead to give.
In other words, Paul wanted them
to consider their circumstances
and to decide
on a certain contribution amount.
Paul was convinced
that this would not result
in their lacking material necessities.
He himself had experienced
the help from Jehovah,
and he knew that God would care for them.
Generous giving would further allow Jehovah
to care for them in a generous way.
Do we now see how planning ahead
is an expression of our faith?
When we do this, we are putting Jehovah
to the test in a good way.
We want to experience how it feels
when Jehovah
sees us setting the right priorities
and, in turn, becomes our Protector
and our Rewarder.
Dear brothers and sisters,
you are displaying this kind of faith.
Many of you set something aside
so that you can contribute
when you come to the Kingdom Hall.
Others consider their expenses
and their financial means,
and they decide
to regularly donate electronically.
Even when circumstances have not allowed you
to donate the way you have done in the past,
you still find a way
to give your contribution to Jehovah.
Jehovah promised
to care for our needs.
Do we really believe that?
If we do, our faith
will help us to give generously.
There was a second concern that might
hold us back from giving generously.
We might consider our circumstances and feel
that the contribution we can make is so small
that it makes no difference.
Do you still have 1 Corinthians 16:2 open?
What did we read there?
Let us read it again, 1 Corinthians 16:2:
“On the first day of every week,
“each of you should set something aside
according to his own means.”
Did you notice that Paul
did not specify a certain minimum amount?
And later, he mentioned
the Macedonian Christians
—they were in deep poverty.
Yet, they begged for the privilege of giving.
They were happy to give
even beyond their means
because they were giving to Jehovah.
Being poor meant
that they individually could not give much,
and yet they understood
that giving materially
is an expression of our worship.
Many of you brothers and sisters
are like those in Macedonia
—you have very little.
And yet, we see your faith
by your contributing generously
according to your circumstances.
No matter how small the amount might be,
you imitate our generous God, Jehovah.
And you experience what
one sister described in a letter.
She wrote,
“All these years I’ve been unable to give
but small amounts of money
at the Kingdom Hall.”
Yet she continued,
“Jehovah God has given me back
much more than I have given.”
Even our young children can learn
to set something aside and give to Jehovah.
Here at Warwick,
we occasionally receive notes and letters
from these young ones
who want to give to Jehovah,
and they tell us how they appreciate
what the organization is doing,
especially the videos.
This really touches our hearts,
and we can only imagine
how happy it must make Jehovah.
Jehovah loves us for giving
the best that we have.
He values even our small contributions.
Even small donations do make a difference
and are noticed by Jehovah.
He sees our faith in action.
In the following video, note what moved
one couple to greater acts of generosity.
When a disaster struck
in the north of the country,
we immediately answered the call for help.
Seeing our brothers and sisters
in need was heartbreaking.
But what really touched our heart
was the spirit
of the local brothers and sisters.
They were like the Macedonians.
They didn’t have much,
but they gave generously from the heart.
When we got home,
Madeline and I resolved
to show the same kind of spirit.
First, our appreciation led us
to review our contribution
to the worldwide work.
I’ve come up with this figure.
Is this right?
Yeah.
Let’s just thank Jehovah.
We looked for ways to be generous
to those around us.
We discovered that we had
the means to give more,
so we didn’t hold back.
And then,
our congregation was invited to help
with a special preaching campaign.
. . . reach as many
as possible with the good news.
Do you think we could do a bit more?
Could we push ourselves a bit further?
I’d really like to.
It was within our power to help,
and that’s exactly what we did!
I’m bringing too much?
No, of course not.
Did you notice what role
faith played in this couple’s giving?
For example,
they put their faith in Jehovah’s promise
to care for them in times of need,
and so they sat down
and reconsidered
their ability to generously give.
Prayerfully, they decided
on their contribution.
In line with our theme,
they “set something aside.”
Additionally,
they shared materially
with their brothers and sisters
—food items, and a nice meal.
They realized what a blessing it is
to be used by Jehovah
in caring for others.
Brothers and sisters,
we live in the most exciting time in history
with never-to-be-repeated opportunities
to demonstrate our faith.
The apostle Paul compared this
with ‘a large door
that opened up.’
Please, think for a moment.
Has a door to activity opened for you
to learn a new language?
Or does it look more like the door leads you
to move to where the need is greater?
Did this symposium remind you
of the door that is open
for you to receive training
at the School for Kingdom Evangelizers?
Or did it direct you to the door
for assisting
with a theocratic building project?
And maybe this concluding part
has reminded all of us
of our privilege of generously supporting
the Kingdom work
by making donations, even if they are small.
What door is open to you
so that you are able to expand your ministry?
Don’t feel bad if you hesitate to enter
—this is normal.
And yet, please,
do not delay entering unnecessarily.
Don’t think you can always reach out later.
For we all do not know
what our life will be like tomorrow.
In other words,
the door to wonderful blessings
that is open today might be closed tomorrow.
So be courageous,
and enter the door to activity in faith.
And like many of your brothers and sisters
who have already
made these steps in the past,
you will have no regrets.
Let us all demonstrate our faith
by doing all that we can
for our Friend and God, Jehovah,
and we will enjoy a rich life now,
and we’ll be blessed
with unending life in the future.
Thank you, brothers,
for those practical suggestions
on expanding our activity.
Let’s sing a song that reflects our desire
to do all we can in Jehovah’s service.
Song number 84 is entitled “Reaching Out.”
That’s song number 84.